but what is the left now I'm a critic of
the left and yet there is no place for
me to participate in Western politics
except on the left today if you want to
ask a simple question a simple but
fundamental question like what is the
future of higher education in the United
States in Canada who cares about having
lower tuition
who cares about helping the poor access
higher education the people who are
asking those questions and trying to
come up with new answers are entirely on
the left and indeed many of them are
socialist
there's nothing socialist about the
question there's nothing socialist about
the answer but we don't have a lively
free market competition of ideas where
the center and the Liberals and the
Conservatives are all coming up with
different answers this such a
fundamental and obvious question is
considered a left-wing fringe ideal it
shouldn't have anything to do with
socialism it's not a socialist problem
for my immediate future I don't see any
reason why I should struggle to try to
create an alternative solution to that
problem in the center and the right
you're trying to get into bed with the
Conservatives they don't even want to
hear it as opposed to hanging around the
door somewhat uncomfortably to the left
and saying hey guys
at least you're asking these questions
at least on a fundamental level you care
I care too can we work together to make
something positive happen is it better
to have our telephones provided to us
through free market competition or
through a government monopoly is it
better to have our train service
operated by 10 companies competing in
free market competition or a government
monopoly those are very real questions
but this brings us back first things
last the question of what is socialism
the meaning of socialism which have
filmed trampled on and misrepresented in
so many of these videos or made a survey
different people attempting to define
the term the meaning of socialism is
simply the consolidation of control in
government hands it's taking away the
element of investment
and the element of risk from the private
sector and putting in the hands of the
state yes on a propaganda level people
can refer to that as ownership by the
people or the operation of a business or
a service for the people but the reality
is you're talking about ownership by the
state and ultimately for the state if
that is a perfectly transparent and
perfectly democratic state then yes it
will serve Democratic interests and if
it is anything less than that it will
serve the government's interests hey
guys this video is going up on my new
youtube channel and it's gonna be
promoted under hashtag politics and
pajamas nobody else was using the
hashtag politics in pajamas can't tell
you why and it looks like marking this
transition to a new era in my youtube
broadcasting experience I said
experience not career I'm gonna have to
get a new microphone cuz take one of
this video was ruined by the microphone
dying on us about halfway through look
guys this is a sincerely made video and
I'm gonna disclose my bias here at the
beginning the middle and the end I am
NOT a socialist I do not describe myself
as a socialist but it seems to me a
great shame that the meaning of the word
is misrepresented by its supporters its
detractors its critics and it's so
widely misunderstood now that it seems
to be impossible for anyone to take a
reasonable position on the matter
I mentioned Cicero in the title of this
video because I've recently been reading
the political philosophy of Cicero it's
a famous author from ancient Rome and
he's like one of the last major authors
in that era that I'm reading I'm very
well-read in the ancient Greeks in
English translation needless to say I
don't read Greek or Latin myself but for
many years it was on my mind that one of
the gaps in my own education had to fill
in was reading Cicero and one of the
single most influential ideas that
Cicero sat down for the next thousand
years was the idea that the best form of
government was not any one ideal but a
hybrid of several competing ideals
and the competing ideals he dealt with
in its own time were democracy monarchy
and aristocracy now when I read about
this as a young man I completely
rejected this approach I felt about this
the same way that some
anarcho-capitalists feel about socialism
and the way that I think most socialists
feel about capitalism I respond to this
approach of cicero's by saying in effect
if you think slavery is bad you don't
seek to have a political establishment
that incorporates slavery no matter how
harmoniously you don't try to have a
society that retains the best aspects of
slavery or a moderate amount of slavery
you want to get rid of slavery entirely
if you believe slavery is evil if you've
come to the conclusion that aristocracy
is fundamentally an immoral and evil and
counterproductive form of government you
don't want to have a society that
incorporates a balanced quantity a
reasonable you know measure of
aristocracy you want to get rid of
aristocracy entirely this is a debate
that still goes on in countries
including United Kingdom England even
Australia what is the role of
aristocracy and what is the role of
monarchy and these in these countries
today is it something they should rid
themselves of entirely why are they
keeping around some some vestiges of it
but anyway obviously thousands of years
ago even just 1,000 years ago this was
this was a much more hotly debated topic
um it's very easy for capitalists Pro
capitalists to come to this conclusion
which is rarely sincere that socialism
is inherently evil and then they argue
it shouldn't be a part of our society at
all well what does socialism really mean
a guy named Milton Friedman would
provoke both his allies and his enemies
but pointing out that within the United
States of America the army the United
States military
was a socialist economy within a
capitalist economy it operated on
socialist principles evaluated as an
economy within a capitalist economy so
if you think you can do without
socialism and
tirely as a pro capitalist do you think
you can do without the army there are
numerous other examples I don't know of
a single country anywhere in the world
that truly has privatized sewage
treatment do you really think you can do
without sewage treatment it whether to
what extent it's possible to have a
purely private sector electrical grid
you know provision of health care
services so on and so forth
when you look sector by sector
throughout the economy most of the
Western European countries today are a
hybrid of socialist and capitalist
elements and they've generally come to a
kind of piecemeal solution as to which
elements the economy can be privatized
if they were socials in the past which
elements the economy must be run by some
kind of government bureaucracy because
they just don't work when they're left
up for the free market to decide so I
appoint the civil time conversations you
know when I grew up in Canada we're
going through a period of transition the
telephone infrastructure very much began
as a government monopoly on socialist
principles you might say and believe me
I'll come back to how do we properly
define socialism we shouldn't leave this
too vague for too long and then there
was a question of will can we transition
from having just one taxpayer-funded
provider of telephone services to having
multiple companies competing having
multiple people come to your door with a
leaflet and say hey we hope you'll sign
up with our telephone company instead of
this other telephone company competing
to provide you with better prices
now the underlying reality was at that
time in Canada all of the infrastructure
was built by the taxpayer anyway they
were using the taxpayer created
monopolies created you know the actual
telephone poles and wires and
what-have-you and creating a bit of an
illusion of free market competition on
top of it does anyone really believe
that the free market can work in
providing and operating prisons does
anyone believe that the free market can
come to your door with a pamphlet and
say hey we hope you'll sign up for our
sewage system don't sign up for our
competition don't sit up with that
company don't sign up for the coca-cola
sewage system something for the Pepsi
sewage system
and we'll just like hitch up your toilet
to a different set of pipes to whisk
away your poo to be treated at our
sewage treatment center before it goes
into the river there are some sectors of
the economy that you know are
incorrigibly socialist in character and
this is why we can't have this attitude
we can't have the attitude I did
research for doing this video I believe
I already know the meaning of socialism
that that's not what I was researching I
did research into how the meaning of
socialism is being misrepresented today
by both its proponents and its
detractors and it's disturbing for me to
see the extent to which today there are
millions of people who feel that the
meaning of the word socialism is
something so sacrosanct that it can't be
questioned let anyone who consider
themselves a good person must use this
word positively and unthinkingly and
unquestioningly without acquiring to it
and the other hand there are millions of
people who think that this is an
inherent and self-evident evil and
cannot be questioned and they also don't
seem to really understand what socialism
is or the fact that each and every
actually existing capitalist economy in
the world is in fact a balance of
socialists and capitalist elements in
fact what would come back to you in some
ways in this sense you know is
reminiscent of Cicero's philosophy of
the hybrid polity of the these different
competing elements being incorporated
into one state it's not what Cicero had
in mind but that was his view of how to
balance democracy by having a democracy
held in check by aristocratic and and
monarchic elements and we certainly have
a socialist economy held in check by
free-market elements and vice-versa you
know a capitalist economy held in check
by free Mergen elements I'm sorry I said
the same thing to editor no edits no
take two let's keep rolling here all
right um what is socialism and why is it
so broadly misunderstood it's been drawn
to my attention back another scholar of
Buddhism that I am what's called an
Origin est'
I like to explain concepts by going back
to their origins their first usage so
you can imagine in history
his philosophy this method I was
interested in looking at in their
original cultural context their original
literary usage what were the meanings of
the words involved etc and then it can
be done productively when you're looking
at ancient Greek and Latin philosophy
even when you're looking at 19th century
German philosophy it was pointing to
someone the other day in a particular
text you know the meaning of the word
liberal just a couple centuries ago was
much different than it is today
you had to read the text in a certain
way knowing the key political terms to
change their meanings the meanings of
words can change over centuries they can
change sometimes over decades I think
socialism is an example of that - I
think when Bernie Sanders uses the word
socialism or when people say that Bernie
Sanders is a socialist we really have to
question what the meaning of the word
socialism is now and in that context and
in what sense Bernie Sanders is a
socialist um
in what sense was Bill Clinton a
socialist what sense was Tony Blair a
socialist in many ways the current
generation with Bernie Sanders really
taking over the leadership at the left
is from my perspective much much more
hopeful then those those prior decades
when but the origins of socialism and to
really understand why the word has its
moral significance both for socialists
who love it and for I don't know enter
capital anarcho-capitalists it hate it
you have to dial your mind back to
approximately the Year 1850 in the year
1850 the Western world was in a period
of dramatic transformation it was going
from being an agrarian agricultural
based society to being an urban
industrialized Society at a remarkable
rate from country to country were they
looking at England United States Canada
these countries went from being 80% the
rural 80% 90% people being employed in
agriculture to being predominantly
people employed in cities not entirely
in industrial manufacture but with
factories being one of these you know
rising very visible signs of the
Industrial Revolution modernization new
technology etc new forms of production
new forms of consumption new forms of
employment and traditional society in
many ways disappearing and being
relegated to a very marginal status the
functions of government as we see them
today both in terms of Social Services
and under all of the categories they
really did not exist in 1650 not at all
even the example of the military being a
socialist economy in the year 1650
that's not the sentence the military in
essence didn't exist at all you had
aristocrats who employed men-at-arms who
trained and raised men to be ready for
military service the creation of a
centralized taxpayer-funded bureaucracy
that's in the centuries following
thereafter a permanent standing
professional army etc and the way wars
were organized the government's had to
appeal to their taxpayers namely
aristocrats very different game in 1650
1650 1750 1850 around the Year 1850 this
is really a transformation of society in
ways some ways it's obvious like people
leaving the countryside and moving to
the cities people no longer being
employed in agriculture being employed
in industry obviously the emergence of
new technologies etc etc but in a more
subtle and pervasive way the
expectations of the government
expectations of whether it be democracy
or otherwise the expectations of what
services should be provided
ultimately by taxpayer-funded
bureaucrats this was changing profoundly
with no manifestos to declare it with no
clear single movement clamoring for it
in the after metro were one for example
you had starvation rubble and
devastation but you didn't have highly
professional international charity
organizations such as United Nations
organizations or such as donation driven
civil society organizations but that
imitate those UN organizations or
government organizations you didn't have
in effect the government monopolization
of charity which goes on under socialism
and to a varying extent in in modern
Western liberal democracies you
have bureaucrats coming out to feed and
clothe the poor this latest world war
one to a remarkable extent in the World
War one period still the work of charity
was in the hands of the church but if
you think about that period of time from
1850 to 1918 that was exactly the period
in which the potential for the
government to take on those
responsibilities of caring for the poor
the unemployed for the government to
expand and take over responsibilities
that previously had fallen at the feet
of aristocrats and the church this
profoundly influenced the way that
members of democratic societies perceive
their governments and in which they
perceive themselves the government of
course always had advantages the
government has the ability to go into
debt to an astounding extent not an
unlimited extent they can raid millions
of dollars going to debt they can spend
taxpayers money they can provide a
certain kind of detached egalitarian
service that the church in that
inexorably and in ever inevitably
doesn't provide so in the aftermath of
World War one the charities that existed
at that time do you think that they
served Jews Christians and Muslims
equally they did not it's a very
historical fact and the struggles with
this and of wanting instead to have a an
impartial and detached bureaucracy
administering to people's needs in these
times this was itself you know what
cause for great optimism about the
expansion of socialism if you could say
the expansion of the socialist economy
we're placing what it heretofore been
aristocratic and religious elements of
our of our civil society you know what
stuff my second installment of my idea
I'd ideological review series today we
were doing
yeah although the meanings of words have
changed in ways both subtle and coarse
one thing that's remarkably consistent
from 1850 to 1918 and from 1918 to 2018
today one thing that's remarkably
consistent is that advocates of
socialism will always describe the
function of socialism as taking over
private ownership for the people they
will describe businesses and social
services as being owned by the people
administered by the people but the sad
fact is what they mean is these
institutions are administered by the
state they're administered by the
government but as I've already explained
if you were alive in that period of time
1850 and for at least 50 years after
that it would have been very easy to be
optimistic about the whole business's
powerplants telephone services all these
new and wondrous things that were coming
with the advancement of the
industrialized Society it would have
been very you know easy to be optimistic
even about the government taking over
soup kitchens giving out food to the
poor because look at who they were
taking over from they weren't really
taking over from a vibrant capitalist
society where Coke and Pepsi were
competing over who was gonna clean your
water after you pooed in it and you dump
it into a river with a sewage treatment
plant it's not reality it was the
possibility of having a professional
bureaucracy take over functions that as
of said a million times heretofore were
dominated by the church and we're
dominate in a way that was obviously you
know prejudicial and disadvantage but
disadvantages to many in a sense nobody
in our modern society could ever be
satisfied with those vestiges of
earlier feudal era being of such
importance so almost anything seemed
better than that and it's really a
separate question when today we look at
it without that historical context and
we just ask in an open-minded way is it
better to have our telephones provided
to us through free market competition or
through a government monopoly is it
better to have our train service offer
it operated by ten companies competing
in free market competition or a
government monopoly those are very real
questions but this brings us back first
things last the question of what is
socialism the meaning of socialism which
have found trampled on and
misrepresented in so many of these
videos or made a survey different people
attempting to define the term the
meaning of socialism is simply the
consolidation of control in government
hands it's taking away the element of
investment and the element of risk from
the private sector and putting in the
hands of the state yes on a propaganda
level people can refer to that as
ownership by the people or the operation
of a business or a service for the
people but the reality is you're talking
about ownership by the state and
ultimately for the state if that is a
perfectly transparent and perfectly
democratic state then yes it will serve
Democratic interests and if it is
anything less than that it will serve
the government's interests just as
ineluctably and inexorably as a charity
operated by the Catholic Church is not
only going to serve the needs of the
poor or the alcoholics they're helping
it's gonna serve the interests of the
church because that is its owner that's
its chain of command
first of all go back communism it's the
idea made by Karl Marx and his
congressman manifesto and he said well
what we should do is we should oh we
shouldn't have government or business
owners workers should own the means of
production who instead of making goods
for money they make it for the good of
the people
and then everybody's happy there's no
money because you can't buy anything
there's no greed it's just great but
does it hold up in real life so I closed
this video by commenting and not for the
first time on this channel that I'm a
critic of the left and yet there is no
place for me to participate in Western
politics except on the left it's really
disturbing to consider that today if you
want to ask a simple question a simple
but fundamental question like what is
the future of higher education in the
United States in Canada who cares about
having lower tuition
who cares about helping the poor access
higher education the people who are
asking those questions and trying to
come up with new answers are entirely on
the left and indeed many of them are
socialist
there's nothing socialist about the
question there's nothing socialist about
the answer but we don't have a lively
free market competition of ideas where
the center and the Liberals and the
Conservatives are all coming up with
different answers this such a
fundamental and obvious question is
considered a left-wing fringe ideal I
mean so Bernie Sanders apparently has a
monopoly on the stunningly obvious issue
that tuition the United States of
America is much too high even when you
just compare it to other real world
examples like Germany Sweden what have
you you don't have to compare them to
the ideal you can compare them to
something all too real right so
tremendous fundamental question on
society who's asking the question who's
coming with new answers it shouldn't
have anything to do with socialism it's
not a socialist problem and yet right
now the Socialists have a monopoly on it
that's tremendously sad I hope that'll
change for my immediate future I don't
see any reason why I should struggle to
try to create an alternative solution to
that problem in the center and the right
you're trying to get into bed with the
Conservatives they don't want to hear it
as opposed to hanging around the door
somewhat uncomfortably to the left and
saying hey guys
at least you're asking these cool
Russians at least on a fundamental level
you care I care too can we work together
it makes my positive happen I could say
the same thing again about fundamental
questions of ecology do you want to
pretend that the Conservatives or the
Republican Party are coming up with
visionary new plans to take on the
ecological problems of our day they're
not I could try to be in the ecological
group wing of the Republican Party or
the conservative party nothing's gonna
happen it's unfortunate because as they
say on the one hand some people just
perceive socialism as an evil that they
don't want to compromise with and this
is a fundamentally inane misperception
of reality as I've said before Milton
Friedman himself recognized that the
American military is a socialist economy
within a free market economy it's a
socialist bubble or socialist fear if
you like so if you want to have a
society that's completely rid of
socialism you'd have to be rid of the
military because communism in the base
of karl marx's thingy his communist
manifesto says there shouldn't be
government but that is well you could
say he's stupid because economically
without a government and without
business owners you're not going to end
off to it because what you have is you
have workers that are expected to work
without pay and they have to give it to
other people so they're basically slaves
to everybody she doesn't go down too
well so people like hey since I'm not
since I don't have to work I'm just
going to not work and let everyone else
for you mind slave so then that's not
good so what do you do
obvious you get government to intervene
and you know force people to work so now
his first flaw there has to be a
government as we authoritarian forcing
people to work so Karl Marx did not
think this
/ - well conversely of course it's
become absurd for socialists to claim
that they want to live in an entirely
socialist economy we just say a command
economy such as existed with disastrous
effects resulting in the starvation to
death of millions of people in China
Russia etc the real-world examples we
have to draw from learn from and build
on are all at this point hybrid
economies they are in part capitalist in
part socialist and they've come about
through a sort of series of ad hoc
decisions as to what the market can and
cannot solve for us and what questions
have to ultimately be answered through
government intervention or through
setting up socialist economies within a
capitalist context I made this video in
part because I heard a discussion
amongst vegans on discord and they were
really discussing the fundamental
questions of economics I considered
textbook questions of economics about
where the free market starts and stops
what are the limitations of capitalism
at what point must we necessarily be
talking about socialist elements in a
free market system and vice-versa
at what point must be talking about free
market elements in a socialist system
those questions we will have with us
always every generation is gonna have to
ask answer them and I think everyone is
serious about politics and economics is
gonna have to ask and answer them but we
have the step away from is ultimately a
moralizing discourse that regards
capitalism and socialism in terms of
good and evil that really obfuscates the
real world questions we now have to ask
an answer as I say what's the future of
the university system higher education
what's the future of the prison system
what's the future of ecology with the
future of sewage treatment Oh what's the
future of prison reform in prison
conditions on and on it goes the
socialists for better or for worse have
a voice have a stake in all of those
issues even though they're not in this
strict sense questions of bio for
socialism and to move forward we're
going to need to have really a
competitive marketplace of ideas where
somebody other than the Socialists has
to step forward and start providing you
know thought provoke thought provoking
answers to the important political
questions about Stalin he killed 20
million people yeah
Chairman Mao or whatever his name is Mao
Zedong well first of all in a communist
state people don't like the government
cuz they're forcing them to work for no
pay at least and if I was a slave I
would not want the government forcing me
to be slave so I they overthrow
something so then they have to cut down
on Liberty so people don't have the
freedom to overthrow them you're being
forced to work for no pay and you're
just waiting in bread lines starving to
death
not too good so we have it's just a
terrible system overall so I would rank
it on my scale of one to five I would
give it one gulag camp out of that's
just my opinion though like if you agree
with me just like if you don't agree
with me subscribe if you like what I do
comment if you are if you own if you own
the means of production see you at a
later point in time goodbye